The Mythology of the game is essential to the victory conditions and some of the mechanics.  

I propose the following outline for the mythology (the names are merely proposals, the story merely the barest outline)


The Shattered Lands

Once upon a time in the ancient continent of Shalea . . . 


There flourished a nation of many different peoples.  The beautiful and short-lived Tarag'am, the industrious Narad'lin, the beautiful sea people of Mirha, the Brimini who ran with the horses . . . 

In those days, the "Eight Lights of Shalea" were gigantic temples that harvested the mystical magical energy of the world.  These temples were administered by the Council of the Lights, a priesthood of mages dedicated to the magic of life and peace and harmony (add nauseating fluff here)

Several centuries ago, a renegade mage named Haldel decried wasting the power of the orbs by merely maintaining the status quo.  He advocated harnessing their power to explore extra dimensions.  He was ridiculed, rejected and exiled from the Temples of Light.

Angered at the rejection and exile, Haldel devoted himself to the study of extra-planar magic.  Unbeknownst to his former peers, his explorations bore deadly fruit and he fell under the influence of extra-dimensional powers hungry for the power of the orbs.  These beings were later called the Tarnim'Dal (Children of Dark and Chaos) 

With the aid of his extra-planar allies, Haldel stole the orbs and launched the war of Light and Darkness.  The War raged for more than a generation and resulted in the destruction of the 8 Cities of Light and turned much of central Shalea into the Blighted Lands. 

The Battle of Korgan 

Korgan was the last of the cities of light.  Defended by the United Armies of the Northern People the city and its defenders were destroyed to the last man.  In a last act of desperation, the remaining priests of the Council of Light tried a potent spell using the last Orb of power (the Orb of Korgan) to destroy the army of Tarnim'Dal that took the city.  The attempt was successful.  

In this way the battle of Korgan was a great defeat and a great victory.  After the destruction of the main army of the Tarnim'Dal, the Army of South Shalea was able to win a crushing victory against Haldel and his remaining allies in the Waste of Narsil.

After the victory at Narsil, Prince Karden the leader of the confederated southern armies took the captured Orb of Narik and returned to his capital city of Tilgamen in triumph.  

The War of Brothers

Once Karden returned to Tilgamen, he took the orb of Narik and declared himself the Emperor of Shalea with the full support of the Southern Kingdoms.  

On the day of his coronation, one of the Princes of the Northern Kingdom of Imryr came forth with an accusation against Karden.  He accused Karden of delaying bringing the armies of the Southern Lands to the aid of the northern city of Korgan.  This delay, argued the prince, was an intentional sacrifice of the people of the north expressly for the purpose of declaring himself Emperor.  The words of the prince touched a nerve among those who had lost so much in the defence of Korgan only to be told that they were to have a foreign emperor.  Karden denied the charges, but the prince died under mysterious circumstances on the way back to Imryr and the northern kingdoms formed the Northern Alliance.  The War of Brothers had begun.

The War of Brothers ended 25 years ago with the unexplained assassination of Karden and the loss of the last orb of power.  Since that time an uneasy peace has governed Shalea with the shattered kingdoms gradually healing from almost two generations of constant war.

The Gray Council

Toward the end of the War of Brothers, some of the mages of Shalea sought to form a successor to the Council of Light.  Calling themselves the Karna' Dal'Li (The Council of Mourning or Grey Council), these mages began to organize and grow in number.

As the mages began to organize, they became aware that the Lesser Kingdoms were wary of allowing them to become too powerful.  Jealous of a potential rival for power, the nobles of the Lesser Kingdoms incited the people against the Grey Council by accusing them of trying to bring back the Tarnim'Dal.  Some mages died during the widespread violence that resulted.

Disillusioned by this incident, the remainder of the Grey Council retreated to the city of Tharnos in the North and secluded themselves there.

The Second War of Brothers

Recently, the Grey Council announced that it had discovered a way to recover the Orbs of Power.  The hostile reactions and threats of the Lesser Kingdoms led the Grey Council to back off trying to recover the Orbs for themselves.  Instead, they have offered the recovered Orbs to the highest bidder.  

The wounds from a generation of civil war were not at all healed and this announcement has been a lighted torch thrown on a pile of oil.  The Northern Alliance has declared that they will never allow a ruler from the Southern Kingdoms to possess the orbs and they are mobilizing for War.  The Kingdoms of the Sun under the nominal rule of Karden II have declared their loyalty and are mobilizing for war.  The Second War of Brothers is about to begin . . . 



























